---
title: Week 1 - Find the cause-effect relations by linguistic patterns
category: Weekly Report
order: 1
---

<!--
1. the different types of causal relations
2. the causal relations that we would like to focus on in this project
How many relations do you get? -->


Broadly speaking, *Girju 2002*[<sup>1</sup>](#refer-anchor-1) defined that causality refers to the way of knowing if one state of affairs causes another. In English, the causative constructions can be explicit or implicit.

- **Explicit** causation patterns contain relevant keywords like <font color="#660066">cause, effect, causation relationship </font><br />
- **Implicit** causative constructions involve inference based on semantic analysis and background knowledge, e.g. <font color="#660066">disease-causing bacteria </font><br />


# Different types of causal relations
## Explicit causative constructions
### Causal connectives								
#### Adverbial causal link
&emsp; <font color="#660066">for this reason; with the result that	</font><br />
#### Prepositional causal links
&emsp; <font color="#660066">because of, thanks to, due to </font><br />			
#### Subordination causal links							
##### Resultative conjunctions										
&emsp; e.g. The colonies came to realize they had to separate from England, <font color="#660066">so	</font><br />	they started the Revolutionary War. <br />
&emsp; <font color="#660066">because, as, since, for, so, so that	</font><br />				
##### Structural link		
&emsp; e.g. <font color="#660066">Being</font> cloudy, the experiment was postponed.<br />
&emsp; non-finite ing-clause					
##### Correlative comparative construction						
&emsp; e.g. The traffic was so heavy <font color="#660066">that</font> I couldn’t arrive on time.					
#### Clause-integrated link							
&emsp; e.g. The new satellite was named ASUKA (flying birds). <font color="#660066">The reason was that</font> the migratory bird soaring into deep space.		 <br />					
&emsp; e.g. It is not a myth that world hunger <font color="#660066">is due to</font> scarcity of food.					


### Causation verbs								
#### Lexical Decomposition 					
&emsp; e.g. <font color="#660066">cause, lead to, bring about, generate, make, force, allow, kill, melt, dry, break, drop, poison, hang, punch, clean	</font><br />		

#### Verbal causative constructions							
##### Analytic causatives
&emsp; e.g. "I <font color="#660066">made</font> him do the homework." "I <font color="#660066">got</font> him to do the homework."  "I <font color="#660066">had</font> him do the homework."					
##### Morphological causatives (-en, -ify)										
&emsp; 	<font color="#660066">blacken, sweeten, thicken, nullify, liquefy, verify	</font><br /> 				
##### Lexical causatives						
&emsp; 	<font color="#660066">kill, feed, die, eat</font><br /> 	

#### Conditionals		
&emsp; 	e.g. <font color="#660066">If</font> s1, <font color="#660066">then</font> s2										

#### Causative adverbs and adjectives 							
##### Adverbs of perception
&emsp; 	<font color="#660066">audibly, visibly</font><br /> 						
##### Adverbs marginally perceptual
&emsp; 	<font color="#660066">manilestly, publicly, conspicuously	</font><br />
##### Adverbs that involve the notion of a result whose properties are context dependent
&emsp; 	<font color="#660066">successfully, plausibly, conveniently, amusingly, pleasantly	</font><br />
##### Adverbs that suggest tendencies, liabilities, disposition or potencies
&emsp; 	<font color="#660066">irrevocably, ously, rudely	</font><br /> 					
##### Adverbs that refer to effects
&emsp; 	<font color="#660066">obediently, gratefully, consequently, painfully	</font><br />
##### Adverbs of means						
&emsp; 	<font color="#660066">mechanically, magically	</font><br />




## Implicit causative constructions

### Complex nominals expressing causation 							
#### with an implicit causation relationship							
&emsp; 	cold tremble (namely, NP1) <font color="#660066">causes	</font> malaria mosquitoes (namely, NP2)			
#### with an explicit but ambiguons causation relationship
&emsp; 	NP1-<font color="#660066">produced	</font> NP2; NPl-<font color="#660066">inducing	</font> NP2 ; NPl-<font color="#660066">provoking	</font> NP2 ; NP1-<font color="#660066">related	</font> NP2; NP2 <font color="#660066">with	</font> NP1 ; P2 <font color="#660066">by	</font> NP1 					
#### with an explicit, unambiguous causation relationship							
&emsp; 	NPl-<font color="#660066">causing	</font> NP2 (e.g, "disease-causing bacteria") ; NP2-<font color="#660066">caused	</font> NPI (e.g., "infection-caused hess" )		

### Implicit causality of verbs								
&emsp; readers prefer to interpret the noun as referring to one or other of the two potential referents							






## Reference

<div id="refer-anchor-1"></div>
- [1] [Girju, R., & Moldovan, D. (2002, March). Mining answers for causation questions. In AAAI symposium on mining answers from texts and knowledge bases.](https://www.aaai.org/Papers/Symposia/Spring/2002/SS-02-06/SS02-06-005.pdf)
